# Hackathon-4.0
#Problem Statement with Solution Approach

The Idea is to build a unique Online Digital Platform through which everyone (the government, citizens, government sectors/departments, NGO's, all the political parties and any other bodies) is interconnected (refer figure above).  
With the help of this integration, regular and continuous analysis of governance can be done. Everyone can keep track of everything which helps in building faith and trust between various bodies of the state/nation, establishing impartial relationship between them and bringing the sides together to contribute for the betterment of the state/nation and pave the way for wonderful opportunities together as one, which in turn helps in a simple, smooth and excellent governance. 
Few Unique Features of the Platform  One for one – one user can have only one account  Verification using Aadhar card/Voter id/Driving license/Any other unique id (UID)  Separate interface for different bodies (government, citizen etc.)  Predefined profile – the user only needs to enter UID and details are automatically fetched. Few selected entities are updatable.  Reference number for every query/complaint for referential purposes  Level/Department wise management/governance approach  Polling/surveys generated by the government for analysis purposes (increases participation).  Policies to prevent misuse of platform  Formulated to prevent any abusive action 
 
BENEFITS/IMPACTS  Mega-scale Digitalization, that is Digitalizing every department and every sector of the state.    Decreased corruption and bureaucracy since everything is digitalized.   Increased employment opportunities in the state/nation.  The government can showcase the initiatives taken and work done.  Easy information and resource access to those in need.  Increased awareness among people, that is more exposure to people to know about how their government works for their welfare through advertisement.  Increased Participation that is People are the decision makers, along with the government, in making of new policies for the betterment of nation/state.  Transparency between various/all the bodies of the state/nation.  Multipurpose single platform (One for All).  Quick responsive system leading to improved governance efficiency.  Management from root level for smooth processing of the information and working of the government.  
 
This platform shall be helpful in attaining benefits mentioned above by achieving the following in a more effective and efficient way than at present. 
1. Rule of Law  Fair legal frameworks are enforced by an impartial regulatory body(the government), for the full protection of the people.  
 
2. Transparency Information is provided in easily understandable forms and media, freely available and directly accessible to those who will be affected by governance policies and practices, as well as the outcomes resulting therefrom, and any decisions taken and their enforcement are in compliance with established rules and regulations. 
 
3. Responsiveness Processes are designed to serve the best interests of people within a reasonable timeframe. 
 
4. Consensus-Oriented Consultation and interaction between various bodies of the state/nation to understand the different interests of people in order to reach a broad consensus of what is in the best interest of the entire community and how this can be achieved in a sustainable and prudent manner. 
 
5. Equity and Inclusiveness Opportunity for People to maintain, enhance, or generally improve their well-being which is the most compelling message regarding its reason for existence and value to society. 
 
6. Effectiveness and Efficiency Processes implemented through the platform are intended to produce favorable results that meet the needs of people while making the best use of resources – human, technological, financial, natural and environmental – at its disposal. 
 
7. Accountability Every individual/organization is accountable for the role they have to play. 
 
8. Participation Participation by both men and women, either directly. Participation will be informed and organized, including freedom of expression and assiduous concern for the best interests of the people/organization and society in general. 
